---
title: Create Performance Task - Password Generator
tags: [Projects, Javascript]
style: fill
color: 
description: Password generator
---

This project was a culminator of all of our learning throughout the year. We were to make our own idea for a program and use iteration, sequencing, and selection in it. I decided to make a password generator featuring lowercase and uppercase letters, numbers, and special characters that could be chosen according to the user's specification. Along with the code, we had to submit a video and descriptions of our code to College Board. Here's a video: 

<video width="600" controls="controls">
  <source src="/assets/vids/create-pt.mp4">
</video>

Below you can also see the code used for the project: 

{% highlight javascript %}
// A 2D array with all possible characters of the password. The first row has lowercase letters, the second row has uppercase letters, the third row has numbers, and the fourth row has special characters.
var letters =  [["a", "b", "c", "d", "e", "f", "g", "h", "i", "j", "k", "l", "m", "n", "o", "p", "q", "r", "s", "t", "u", "v", "w", "x", "y", "z"], 
                ["A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F", "G", "H", "I", "J", "K", "L", "M", "N", "O", "P", "Q", "R", "S", "T", "U", "V", "W", "X", "Y", "Z"],
                ["1", "2", "3", "4", "5", "6", "7", "8", "9", "0"], 
                ["!", "@", "#", "$", "%", "^", "&", "*", "(", ")", "`", "~", "-", "_", "=", "+", "[", "{", "]", "}", "\\", ";", ":", "\"", "'", ",", "<", ".", ">", "/", "?"]];

// Makes a password according to user-inputted parameters. 
// Can use lowercase and uppercase letters, numbers, and special characters.
function start() {
    println("Password Generator: \n---------");
    var length = readInt("How long do you want your password to be?"); // Asks for length of password
    var remaining = length;
    var wanted = []; // Initializes array for amounts of each character type the user wants
    while (true) { // Asks user for amount of wanted lowercase letters. If there are not enough characters left, we keep asking until given a proper amount is given
        wanted.push(readInt("How many lowercase letters do you want your password to have?")); // Pushes wanted character amount to array
        if (wanted[0] > remaining) { // Checks if there are enough characters left in the password to add these characters
            println("There are too many letters! Please try again. ");
            wanted.pop(); // Removes unneeded number from array
        } else {
            remaining -= wanted[0]; // Subtracts amount of wanted character type from characters remaining to use
            break;
        }
    }
    
    while (true) { // Asks user for amount of wanted uppercase letters. If there are not enough characters left, we keep asking until given a proper amount is given. It works the same as the first while loop.
        wanted.push(readInt("How many uppercase letters do you want your password to have?"));
        if (wanted[1] > remaining) {
            println("There are too many letters! Please try again. ");
            wanted.pop();
        } else {
            remaining -= wanted[1];
            break;
        }
    }
    
    while (true) { // Asks user for amount of wanted numbers. If there are not enough characters left, we keep asking until given a proper amount is given
        wanted.push(readInt("How many numbers do you want your password to have?"));
        if (wanted[2] > remaining) {
            println("There are too many numbers! Please try again. ");
            wanted.pop();
        } else {
            remaining -= wanted[2];
            break;
        }
    }
    
    while (true) { // Asks user for amount of wanted special characters. If there are not enough characters left, we keep asking until given a proper amount is given
        wanted.push(readInt("How many special characters do you want your password to have?"));
        if (wanted[3] > remaining) {
            println("There are too many special characters! Please try again. ");
            wanted.pop();
        } else {
            remaining -= wanted[3];
            break;
        }
    }
    
    if (remaining > 0) { // If there are any characters left in the length, adds more lowercase letters.
        println("Adding more lowercase characters...");
        wanted[0] += remaining;
    }
    
    println("---------")
    
    println("Your Password: " + generatePass(wanted)); // Calls to generate password function with array of wanted characters
}

// Precondition: An array with each element being the amount of characters of each type in the password. 
// Postcondition: Returns a string containing a password with the required characrer amounts and types. 
function generatePass(arr) {
    var pass = ""; // Initializes password
    while (true) { // Repeats adding characters until all the needed characters are added
        var sum = 0;
        for (var i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) { // Sums up needed characters left in the array
            sum += arr[i];
        }
        if (sum == 0) { // If all needed characters are used, then end the loop
            break;
        }
        var type = Randomizer.nextInt(0, arr.length - 1); // Randomizes next character type selection
        if (arr[type] != 0) { // If the type of character is not fully represented, chooses a random form of that character
            var curr = letters[type];
            var idx = Randomizer.nextInt(0, curr.length - 1); 
            pass += curr[idx];
            arr[type]--;
        }
    }
    return pass; // Returns completed password
}
{% endhighlight %}